Add new term: 'Event Streaming' (#1065)
cncf/glossary: content/en/event-streaming.md

---
title: Event Streaming
status: Feedback Appreciated
category: concept
---

## What it is

> Event streaming is a system in which one is providing a constant flow of data.

Reviewer: "Picture a service broadcasting everything it does to all other services." might be a little too much, but it really paints a picture.

> Event streaming is a system in which one is providing a constant flow of data.

Reviewer: Ok, adding my suggestion below as a committable change which might be easier...but I still might need help with the Netflix example. Does it sound more or less correct?

```suggestion
Event streaming is an approach where [microservices](/microservices/) continuously communicate to the system what they are doing. 
Picture a service broadcasting everything it does to all other services. 
Each activity taken by a service is referred to as an event, hence event streaming. 
For example, the Netflix service in charge of registering user movie choices might "broadcast" an event communicating something like: "User X selected movie Y."
The message is now "out there" for the Netflix service in charge of pulling the movie from the database to pick it up.
```

> The data in this stream contains information regarding events (changes of state)

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

## Problem it addresses

> As more data becomes real-time, there will be an increased need to ensure that data is consistently flowing from a producer (source) to a consumer (receiver).

Reviewer: Same here:
```suggestion
The traditional communication approach for services is "ask, don't tell," coupling services to one another. 
In our example, the Netflix service that pulls the movie from the database would have to ask the service that registers user choices: 
"What's your current state? Any movies I need to get?" 
This approach assumes that the first service is always available to respond.

This method is problematic with real-time data, like in the case of Netflix. 
Users expect the app to stream the selected movie without any delay. 
With more data becoming real-time, there will be an increased need to ensure that data consistently flows from a producer (service source) to a consumer (service receiver).
```

> Past architectures would pull data in small batches over set period of time but nowadays, applications are needing to get constant, up-to-date data.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

## How it helps

> 

Reviewer: Here again, I think we need to explain a little before getting into the weeds
```suggestion
Event streaming allows services to be completely decoupled from one another (a fundamental principle of [microservices](/microservices/) architectures). Instead of waiting for services to request information from it, the service continuously streams all its events (or activities). It isn't concerned about what happens to the information. It just does what it needs to do and broadcasts it to the system, thus completely independent of any other service. 
```

> Event streaming can be seen as an extension of [Event-driven architectures](/event-driven-architecture/) while event-driven architecture is the infrastructure designed to support the streaming of events to their respective services.

Reviewer: Isn't event streaming how event-driven architectures are implemented? If so, I wouldn't call it an extension. 

```suggestion
Event streaming is how services in an [event-driven architectures](/event-driven-architecture/) communicate. Hence, the former is the process, and the latter is the infrastructure to support that process. 
```

> Event streaming allows services to be completely decoupled from one another (a fundamental principle of [microservices](/microservices/) architectures). Instead of waiting for services to request information from it, the service continuously streams all its events (or activities). It isn't concerned about what happens to the information. It just does what it needs to do and broadcasts it to the system, thus completely independent of any other service. 

Reviewer: If we link to microservices above, we don't need this link
```suggestion
Event streaming allows services to be completely decoupled from one another (a fundamental principle of microservices architectures). 
Instead of waiting for services to request information from it, the service continuously streams all its events (or activities). 
It isn't concerned about what happens to the information. 
It just does what it needs to do and broadcasts it to the system, thus completely independent of any other service. 
```

> Event streaming is how services in an [event-driven architectures](/event-driven-architecture/) communicate. Hence, the former is the process, and the latter is the infrastructure to support that process. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

> Event streaming is sending data at a near real-time rate that updates the application on changes of states (events).

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

---
title: Event Streaming
status: Feedback Appreciated
category: concept
---

## What it is

Event streaming is an approach where software sends event data from one application to another to continuously communicate what they are doing.
Picture a service broadcasting everything it does to all other services.
Each activity taken by a service is referred to as an event, hence event streaming.

> For example, the NASDAQ gets updates on stock and commodities pricing every second. If you had an application that monitored a specific set of stocks, you would want to receive that information in near real-time. Yahoo! Finance provides an [API](https://glossary.cncf.io/application-programming-interface/) that pulls from NASDAQ and sends (or streams) the information (or events) from their application to any application that subscribes to it.
> The data being sent as well as the changes in that data (stock prices) are the events while the process of delivering them to an application is event streaming.
> 
> ## Problem it addresses
> 
> Traditionally, Yahoo! Finance would use single TCP requests. This would be very inefficient as it would require a connection to be created for every event. As data becomes more real-time in nature, scaling such a solution would be inefficient.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For example, the NASDAQ gets updates on stock and commodities pricing every second.
If you had an application that monitored a specific set of stocks, you would want to receive that information in near real-time.
Yahoo! Finance provides an [API](https://glossary.cncf.io/application-programming-interface/) that pulls from NASDAQ and sends (or streams) the information (or events) from their application to any application that subscribes to it.
The data being sent as well as the changes in that data (stock prices) are the events while the process of delivering them to an application is event streaming.

## Problem it addresses

Traditionally, Yahoo! Finance would use single TCP requests.
This would be very inefficient as it would require a connection to be created for every event.
As data becomes more real-time in nature, scaling such a solution would be inefficient.
```

Thank you @jasonsmithio . I love the collaborations in this PR to improve quality!

The recent change does not follow the style-guide (https://glossary.cncf.io/style-guide/#three-subheadings). So, I'd like to suggest line breaks. :)
(Please note that I didn't review the contents itself)

> To facilitate review, please use semantic line breaks (one sentence per line).

---
title: Event Streaming

> status: Feedback Appreciated

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
status: Completed
```

category: concept
---

## What it is

Event streaming is an approach where [microservices](/microservices/) continuously communicate to the system what they are doing. 
Picture a service broadcasting everything it does to all other services. 
Each activity taken by a service is referred to as an event, hence event streaming. 
For example, the Netflix service in charge of registering user movie choices might "broadcast" an event communicating something like: "User X selected movie Y."
The message is now "out there" for the Netflix service in charge of pulling the movie from the database to pick it up.

## Problem it addresses

> The traditional communication approach for services is "ask, don't tell," coupling services to one another. 

Reviewer: The coupling part came from me 😬 Don't remember where I read it, but it made a lot of sense. What else does it try to address?

> The traditional communication approach for services is "ask, don't tell," coupling services to one another. 

Reviewer 3: The coupling part makes sense, but it is more something that is accomplished with Event Driven Architecture in general. As Event Streaming is a specialization of Event Driven Architecture it also provides decoupling of course. But it is not the main point. I think we should focus on the aspect of streaming vs messaging. AFAI can tell the main point is that streaming and messaging are different in the way messages are delivered, regarding performance and resilience. 

https://blog.iron.io/message-queue-vs-streaming/
http://docs.eventide-project.org/core-concepts/streams/streams-vs-queues.html
https://stackoverflow.com/questions/41744506/difference-between-stream-processing-and-message-processing

In our example, the Netflix service that pulls the movie from the database would have to ask the service that registers user choices: 
"What's your current state? Any movies I need to get?" 

> This approach assumes that the first service is always available to respond.

Reviewer 3: This is IMHO not the problem statement, that is solved with Event Streaming. If one service relies on another service, which is not available to respond, event streaming won't help. High availability through horizontal scaling and auto healing will.

Reviewer: Oh, so without event streaming HA, horizontal scaling , and self-healing isn't feasible?

Reviewer 3: HA, horizontal scaling and self healing have nothing to do with event streaming per se. 

The section reads as if event streaming helps with the problem that services might not be available to respond. IMHO that is not the case.

Author: That's a fair point. Event-streaming is more of the "What" than the "how". I would say that Event-driven architecture is the how. Event streaming is just the streaming of events from point A to point B.

This method is problematic with real-time data, like in the case of Netflix. 
Users expect the app to stream the selected movie without any delay. 
With more data becoming real-time, there will be an increased need to ensure that data consistently flows from a producer (service source) to a consumer (service receiver).

## How it helps

> Event streaming allows services to be completely decoupled from one another (a fundamental principle of microservices architectures). 

Reviewer 3: Again, decoupling is not the focus IMHO.

---
title: Event Streaming
status: Feedback Appreciated
category: concept
---

## What it is

Event streaming is an approach where software sends event data from one application to another to continuously communicate what they are doing.
Picture a service broadcasting everything it does to all other services.
Each activity taken by a service is referred to as an event, hence event streaming.
For example, the NASDAQ gets updates on stock and commodities pricing every second. 
An application that monitors a specific set of stocks would need to receive that information in near real-time. 
If you had an application that monitored a specific set of stocks, you would want to receive that information in near real-time. 

> If NASDAQ provides an API that send the information from their application to yours, you have event streaming.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
NASDAQ provides an [API](https://glossary.cncf.io/application-programming-interface/) that sends (or streams) the information (or events) from their application to any application that subscribes to it.
```

NASDAQ does provide an API, so I think we can say so

Author: > 

I could use something else such as AlphaVantage. I wanted to avoid naming a specific tech product as well as highlight someone who is a member with CNCF.  I will change to Yahoo!

The data sent and the changes in that data (stock prices) are the events, while the process of delivering them to an application is event streaming.

## Problem it addresses

> Traditionally, one would use single TCP requests. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Traditionally, NASDAQ would have provided this data via TCP requests.
```
Since we are referring to the example above, we should refer to it in the new section
